Make every class have their version of nuclear pda - That should make people roles more enagaging as they dont need to be in one place (cuz being in one place is not fun, and games are about fun).
Make Navigator have ist own version just for shuttle.
Make every class type (capitan-like, engi role) have their own diving suit and weapons, both mele and ranged (engineers should have only big ass crowbar dmg, freeman like). 
The Exeption is "Commanding Classes", Witch should have its own versions of them, a little more powerfull, but MUCH more expenisve, but only wealded by them. Diving suits should be normal.

new gimmick of "ruling" classes will be aoe buffs (mabe without HoS, cuz idk if i can make it specify targets).

TREE
	one  two  one - left and right should be for pda, middle one should have some kind of choice, buff yourself, or be more better for your team
	two  one  two - Unlock an small recipie and then offensive or defensive choices on left and right, buffing team and yourself very slightly)
	two  two  two - unlock a tool, or something you can give, middle is xp gain
	one  one  one - left and right respectivly weapons and diving suits. Two should be buff yourself, or buff team sort of
	
	1st column - buffs to dmg scaled to your skill, except are engineers and mechanics, and COB
	2nd column - buffs to your team and xp. Capitan like roles should have medals tree instead. Exception is CO
	3rd column - upgrades to health, and defence scaled to your skill. Exceptions are "Working" classes, engineers and mechanics.


Quatermaster
	In crysis should function excaly as mechanic but without repair bonuses
	he should have all of production perks from vanilla
	
	1st tree - Ammo restock and crafting
	2nd tree - tinkerer and hull sealer
	3rd tree - Resuplyer? making misc stuff like oxygen and etc
	
	Tree that allows you to create reciepies for class items for a price
	
Navigator
	1st tree
		Diver offensive tree
	2nd tree
		Driving the sub and small range aoe buffs
	3rd tree
		Buffs to surability to you and other people small eoe, but smaller than diver
	
	Flare instead of offenive tree.
	Tactical offenive tool. CC
	super flares
	Super alien flare - massive light range. a long time.
	flaregun good - They melt hull. 
	UV Polarisng gogles. - more vison range. - a component of modular headset - tier 4 of utility tree
	AOE buff when you use shuttle nav terminal - lvl 2 skill

	Dive Coordinator;

	Stick flares to harpoons, Flares deal DOT and illuminate target (Maybe later damage exposure?) (Doesn’t attract enemies)

	Slipsuits; +25% movement speed while in slipsuit OR physical conditioning melee attack replaced with slow regen (Half of just a scratch when in water)

	Spec-ops propulsion ; Polarized Lens 

	Flare Cannon; Handcannon flare edition and alien flares ammunition

	Shuttle Captain

	Remote Navigation Controller; remotely controls navigation terminal OR Shuttle Navigation Controller

	Trustbuilding; while in a shuttle gain passive buff? OR 

	Helmsman



Diver

	Balista gun  - better hapoon gun. - 4st offenive tier, class weapon. added velocity
	pack a punch
	creating achab spears titanium alimunum.  DU spear?. Piercing spear.
	Better plasma cutter - pulse laser bore - laser cutter.
	Rebreather, as a backapack. A tank.
	harpoons for situaltians
	harpoons that are easyer tp
	
	Salvor

	Tier 1; 2 glowsticks every mission

	Miner

	Tier 1; Long Haul; 60% low oxygen resistance 

	Tier 2;Plant Detection; when within 50m of plants, get a status effect. 50% chance of double output from plants OR Miner

	Tier 3; If holding a storage container, gain a speed boost OR 

	Frogman 

	Tier 1; First Aid Training

	Craftable Ahab Spears (Psychorium spear + Titanium) (Tier 2) OR Demolitions Expert (Explosive Spears Quality) 

	Deep Sea Slayer vs Bucaneer

	Ballista (1 Harpoon, ridiculous velocity) 




	
Custodian
	Painting dicks over the sub, yes
	Buildable roomba for cleaning items.
	Mason:
	Maybe janitor could drag bodies faster, have a buffed sprayer tool, come with AOE crew boosts that he applies to rooms
	Everyone should love the janitor
	whenever Janitor uses sprayer, he gets a 10% fixing speed for about 6 seconds
	Janitor could apply a buff with his sprayer to all electrical and mechanical items making them not decay for a set time
	THE CLEANER COULD SPRAY TOXINS
	I remember in space station 13 janitor could make you trip, making him very hard enemy to fight
	OH! he can create better suits. Like upgrade vanilla clothes
	Lasting Effect (Paramedics) - Medical items last 5% longer when used on others. Not on self

	Farmer
	
	Weapons



Security and Divers
	Security will have autoshotguns, and Divers Assault Rifle



Medic
	https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2695068144&searchtext=talent
	Maybe this as a talent gun
	




COB should have many technical staff only and physical vessel buffs. Imagine a tinker skill but it lasts several minutes afterwards.


	Random Weapon evey round
	


All talents should have 1 thing to give all people, an weapon, and an diving suit colored accordingly

Themed medals

If a player dies gives you valor

Make Lua command to make someone prisioner

The range of the effects is irrelevant tbh in everything. Making a role in its entirety based on its range is counterproductive but thinking more on a personal talent by talent basis is more effective. You have the right idea with XO but maybe think more like health, speed, and skill boosts.

Tear gas

Passenger BaroPlus integration (alien things)